Motorola Mobility Australia Ptd. Ltd. ("Motorola") maintains this web site and other Motorola web sites linked to this site (collectively "the Site"), and the information and materials on the Site ("Content"). By accessing or browsing the Site, you agree to these Terms of Use.

Please note this Site also links to third party Motorola partner websites independently operated by the Motorola partner. Motorola has authorised these third parties to sell Motorola product. The use by you of such sites is subject to the third parties terms and conditions and privacy statement which we encourage you to read. Please also read the section below headed Links to Third Party Websites which applies to the Motorola partner websites.

Disclaimer
Whilst Motorola takes care to ensure the accuracy of the Content, to the extent permitted by law, Motorola assumes no legal liability for and does not warrant that the information contained on this Web site is accurate or complete, or that these web pages will be free from errors or that its availability will be uninterrupted and Motorola hereby expressly disclaims and excludes all express and implied warranties terms or conditions not stated herein, so far as such exclusion or disclaimer is permitted under the applicable law. Motorola excludes all liability to any person for any loss or damage caused by any errors or omissions, whether such errors or omissions result from negligence, accident or any other cause but this disclaimer is without prejudice to any claims for fraudulent misrepresentation, personal injuries or death.

Restrictions on use of content
The Content of this web site and all copyright and other intellectual property rights therein belong to Motorola or its Content providers. You are hereby granted permission to access the Site and print a copy of the Content as a record of your visit. All other use of the Site and its Content, including modification, publication, transmission, creation of derivative works, incorporation into another web site or reproducing the Site or the Content (whether by linking, framing or any other method) is not permitted without Motorola's prior express written consent.

 Copyright 1994-2013 Motorola Mobility LLC. All Rights Reserved

Intellectual property licenses
For products containing MPEG-4 video functionality, please note such products are licensed under the MPEG-4 Visual Patent Portfolio License for the personal and non-commercial use of a consumer for (i) Encoding video in compliance with the MPEG-4 video that was encoded by a consumer engaged in a personal and non-commercial activity and/or was obtained from a video provider licensed by MPEG LA to provide MPEG-4 video. No license is granted or shall be implied for any other use. Additional information including that relating to promotional, internal and commercial uses and licensing may be obtained from MPEG LA, LLC. See http://www.mpegla.com.

Submissions of information
Please do not send Motorola any information or material you consider to be confidential or proprietary information, such as business or product ideas concepts, know-how or techniques.

By submitting any material or information to Motorola, you agree:

That such material or information is not confidential or proprietary and Motorola shall be free to use any such information in any manner for any purpose without charge or liability to you and you agree not to take any action against Motorola in relation to the use of such material or information.

That you own or have unrestricted rights to the material or information submitted to Motorola and you shall indemnify and render Motorola harmless against any and all claims, suits proceedings, expenses, recoveries and damages including court costs and lawyers fees and expenses of any type whatsoever, brought against Motorola in connection with infringement of third party rights in respect of the material or information that you submitted;

To take reasonable steps to ensure that the material or information is free from any known computer viruses, or other contaminates, including but not limited to any code or instructions that may be used to modify damage disable or compromise the security of this web site, or Motorola's computer systems or networks.

Posting or transmitting to or from the Site any unlawful, threatening, libelous, defamatory, obscene, scandalous, inflammatory, pornographic, or profane material, or any other material that could give rise to any civil or criminal liability under the law, is prohibited.

Any personally identifiable information you submit to us shall be treated in accordance with our privacy policy.

Purchase of products
The purchase of any products advertised on this site will be subject to the additional terms of purchase which appear on the relevant page. Please note these may be the terms of purchase of a third party if you have linked to their site. If you purchase Motorola Products from a Motorola Website (as compared to a Motorola third party partner website) then the terms of Purchase, appearing on the relevant page of the Motorola web site will apply.

Governing law
This web site was created for viewers in Australia .Any interpretation of its content, claims or disputes (of whatever nature and not limited to contractual issues) shall be limited to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of Victoria, Australia under the law of the State of Victoria, Australia.

Trademarks and service marks
Motorola, the Motorola logo, and any other trademarks or service marks shown on this Site (e.g. Timeport) are owned by Motorola or other third party owners. No Motorola trademark or service mark may be used as a hyper-link without prior written permission. Any unauthorized use of the trademarks or service marks is prohibited. Access to this site does not imply any grant of rights to use any Motorola trademarks or registered trademarks and no licenses or right to use are granted by implication estoppel or otherwise in respect of any copyrights, patents, trademarks, services marks in relation to this web site.

Acceptance of these terms
By using this site, you signify your assent to the Motorola Privacy Statement and these Terms of Use. If you do not agree with the Motorola Privacy Statement and these Terms, please do not use our site. We reserve the right, at our discretion, to change, add or remove portions of these Terms of Use at any time. Please check this page periodically for changes. Your continued use of the Motorola site following the posting of changes to these Terms of Use means you accept the changes.

Revisions
Motorola reserves the right to revise, withdraw or restrict access to the Content of this web site in whole or in part at any time without prior notice.

Links to third-party Web sites
This site contains links to other web sites. Some of these other sites may use the Motorola logo and brands and may appear to be Motorola operated web sites, but are in fact operated by independent third parties (with Motorola's permission). This should be stated on the relevant web page or indicated in the terms of use or privacy statement of such site. Motorola assumes no responsibility for material created or published by third parties on sites which are linked to or from the site, or for third party products referred to in such sites. Motorola has no control over and assumes no responsibility for any material created or published by third parties on third Party sites which are linked to or from this site and such links shall in no way imply that Motorola endorses the third party site or the products or services (other than genuine Motorola products) referred to in such sites. Motorola has no responsibility in connection with any product purchase you may make whilst visiting the third party site. If you experience difficulties or have any issues in relation to such third party web sites please refer these direct with the third party operator.
HD